Good morning, everyone.
My name is Dallas De Atley,
and we're going to spend the
next hour talking about the new
iCloud Storage features that we're
introducing with iOS 5 and Mac OS X 11.
I'd like to begin by
talking about my stuff.
I might have stuff on
my iPhone or iPod Touch.
I might have it on my iPad.
- I might even have it on
some other type of device.
And it shouldn't matter
what device I'm using.
I should be able to
get access to my stuff,
regardless of which one I'm
actually using at the moment.
So if I create a document--
On my iPad,
I should be able to get access to
that document on every other device.
And I really shouldn't
have to do it myself.
That said,
keeping everything up to date on all
of those devices can be really tricky.
Now, there are existing solutions
for specific types of data.
So for example,
Mail on my iPhone and Mail on my
Mac both talk with a server via IMAP.
And so they're able to keep
all of my email up to date
between those two devices.
The same is true for Contacts,
which uses Card Dev.
As well as Calendars that uses CalDAV to
specifically keep my calendars up
to date between all of my devices.
And of course there's iTunes,
which copies media to my device,
as well as files on
behalf of applications.
But to be honest, the user shouldn't have
to do this himself.
The system and the applications should
just make sure that his stuff is there,
regardless of what device he's on.
So, should each developer have to come up
with his own custom solution to do this?
For example, you might be working
with just regular files.
Your document might be a
single file on the file system,
and that is what you're
presenting to the user.
You might actually have something
a bit more sophisticated,
which is what we call a package,
which is a collection of files
that represent a document.
You might also have an application
that we call a shoebox app.
And a shoebox application collects a
lot of files on behalf of the user,
and then indexes them,
usually with something
like a SQLite database,
and presents that to the user.
A good example would be iPhoto.
But you might not actually be
dealing with documents at all.
You might be dealing with a smaller
set of data that doesn't actually
need to be put in a document,
but you still want to have that
behavior replicated across your
app on all of the user's devices.
Our solution is iCloud Storage.
It's a new API that's available
for any App Store app.
And what it does is it provides
an iCloud sandbox per application.
Now, if you're familiar with
sandbox applications on iOS,
each application lives
within its own sandbox.
And its data is isolated from the rest
of the system and other applications.
So other apps can't get at your data.
There are some benefits
to this isolation.
In particular,
it provides security for your data,
as well as stability for
the system as a whole.
But it does make actually
moving documents between
devices Fairly difficult.
In the case of iCloud
Storage in our iCloud Sandbox,
what we've done is we've created
a sandbox that is accessible to
your app that will upload files
and data that's in that sandbox,
and it will do it automatically.
We're also providing a feature that
allows you to upload simple key
value data if you don't necessarily
want to put it into a document.
And it works continuously
and in real time.
So as you edit your document,
those changes are going
to be reflected in iCloud.
So iCloud Storage is responsible
for moving the data between each
device that a user is logged
into his iCloud account with.
And it will notify your application
when a file that's available to it in
the iCloud Sandbox has been modified.
[Transcript missing]
The system,
when it notices that two documents
have changed on two different devices,
it's going to go ahead and pick a winner.
However,
we know that the system is not going
to get this right every single time.
And so through the API,
we make it possible for your
application to go back and choose
the other file if it wants to.
Also, it just works.
We take care of all the details of
taking those files and moving them up
to the cloud and moving them to the
other user's device on your behalf.
Even if your application isn't running.
So if you're on iOS and your
application has been suspended,
all of your documents that are in that
application's iCloud container are
still going to be moved up to iCloud.
If you're on the Mac, it's the same deal.
If the application is quit,
we're still going to be moving
all of those documents between
your device and iCloud.
So how does it actually work?
When you create a document,
what the system is going to do is break
it down into a series of discrete chunks.
And the first time you
create the document,
all those chunks are going
to be moved up to the cloud.
Now when the user modifies that document,
what the system is going to do is
determine just the set of changes that
have actually been made to the document,
and only move those
chunks up to the cloud.
And now the cloud has a new and
complete version of that file.
on the server.
So it's atomic.
Your application is not going
to be notified of a change
until all of the changes have
actually arrived on the device.
It also works with packages.
So if your application's
document is a package,
it will also work with Cloud Storage.
It goes peer-to-peer when possible.
So while the truth may be in the cloud,
the data itself is going
to take a shortcut.
So if you have two devices that
are on the same wireless network,
and they're associated with
the same iCloud account,
they will go ahead and move
the data between each other,
just as if it had downloaded
it directly from iCloud.
So there's a bit of
an optimization there.
It's able to do this because of the way
that iCloud Storage treats the difference
between the file's metadata and its data.
So the metadata is always
pushed to the cloud.
And when I say metadata,
I'm talking about the information that
actually describes the files themselves.
So its name, its size, its type,
its modification dates.
That information is being aggressively
pushed up to iCloud any time a file
is created or otherwise modified.
This is so that iCloud knows
about the existence of a file.
As soon as it's been created.
And this is a very important
concept that we want to get
across with iCloud Storage,
which is what we're building here is a
system where your application is going
to know about the existence of a file,
even if it might not yet
be local on the device.
So iCloud in particular
will always pull new files.
So when the device
tells it of a new file,
iCloud is going to go ahead and
pull that data up to the server
so that it always has the most
up-to-date copy of the user's data.
Devices are going to pull files when
it's appropriate for each platform.
This is because your iPhone is going
to have radically different performance
and power characteristics than your
iMac that's plugged into the wall.
Your iMac also has a lot more storage.
And so the operating system is
going to make a decision about when
it moves the data automatically,
when it's best for that platform.
So the OS may pull that
data automatically,
or it may not.
However,
your application is still going to
know about the existence of that file,
and through that,
it's going to be able to
pull that data automatically.
Through the API,
you can then elect to have the
system move a document local
if it's not already there.
So again, this is a big concept that
we want to get across today,
which is we're building a system
where your applications are going
to know about all of the files that
are available to it via iCloud,
even if they're not on the device yet.
So the file exists,
but the data might not have arrived yet.
At this point,
I'd like to invite up Eric Krugler to
tell us more about the iCloud services
that form the backbone of iCloud Storage.
Thank you, Dallas.
So I'm going to talk a little bit
about the actual service that's
behind the iCloud Storage APIs.
Now yesterday, we announced iCloud.
iCloud stores your content and
wirelessly pushes it to all your devices.
iCloud also integrates
seamlessly with your app,
so everything happens automatically.
And we talked about a number
of the applications that
are integrated with iCloud.
So many of these you're
familiar with-- your contacts,
your calendar, your mail.
We also have enhanced backup,
so that backup automatically
goes to the cloud.
And on restore, you can automatically get
everything back down to your device.
We also announced PhotoStream,
which is a great way to get
your photos up into the cloud
and onto all of your devices.
And we also talked about cloud documents.
Now, cloud documents is the way
that you integrate with iCloud.
It's the way any application that
needs to store data in the cloud and
get it to all devices can basically
take advantage of the iCloud services.
Now,
when we set about creating cloud storage,
we had a couple choices to make,
and one was we could have
built a better iDisk.
But we decided to take
some lessons from iOS,
and we thought we should
really mimic the model of
application-centered document management.
And what that means is that,
as Dallas says,
you have a sandbox that basically
manages your application data.
That means you're in total
control of the documents.
No one else can basically manipulate
those documents except your application.
And that allows you to have complete
control and exclusive rights to make the
best presentation for your customers.
Now, in doing that,
we had to then provide an API.
So it's the iCloud Storage API that
gives you direct access into cloud
storage to manage the documents.
Now we believe iCloud is the absolute
best way for you to store your content
and get it on all your devices.
And because of that,
we're making it as easy as possible
for customers to adopt iCloud.
So the first way you do that is, well,
you make it free.
So iCloud is free with iOS 5,
as well as with Mac OS X Lion.
But in addition to that,
we're also making iCloud
part of the iOS 5 setup.
So any user who purchases a new iPad,
an iPhone, an iPod Touch,
or upgrades their
existing device to iOS 5,
goes through the iOS 5 setup.
And in iOS 5 setup,
there's a step where you
provide your Apple ID,
or you can create one.
Now most users already
have iTunes accounts,
and they'll use those accounts right
here to basically set up iCloud.
But even if they don't have one,
right in the flow,
they can create a brand
new iCloud account,
and it gives them
immediate access to iCloud.
With that account,
you get a free five gigabytes of storage.
And with that storage,
you basically have access to the
iCloud Storage APIs for that customer.
So what you can expect is that
the vast majority of users who
are on iOS 5 will have iCloud.
And because they have iCloud,
they will have iCloud Storage.
Now, in addition to trying to make
this as easy as possible for
customers to adopt iCloud,
we're also trying to make
it easy for developers.
So one way to think about this is,
you know,
what it would take for you to build
your own cloud storage service.
So if you go down this path,
the first thing you're going
to have to do is set up and
configure a bunch of servers.
Whether you buy or rent these,
you're going to need the infrastructure
to basically service all these requests
coming in from all of your devices.
This is quite a bit of work.
Then you're going to have
to create your own protocol.
That's always a lot of fun.
You're going to have
to write a lot of code,
both on the client and on the server,
to make sure that everything is
efficient and reliably moving between
all of your devices in the cloud.
You'll need to add push notifications,
because your customers are
going to expect that everything
gets updated immediately.
You'll need to add replication
in your data centers for high
availability and disaster recovery.
And anyone who's done this knows this is
an incredibly difficult problem to solve.
Once you get this thing operating, well,
then you get to be on call all the time.
And after all that,
you get to pay for the
storage and the bandwidth.
Or you can simply use
the iCloud Storage APIs.
Now,
iCloud is a brand new service built from
the ground up to basically put users'
content in the cloud and distribute it
through push down to all the devices.
But it's actually built on quite a bit of
experience at Apple with cloud services,
and some of these you should
be very familiar with.
So the first is the iTunes Store.
The iTunes Store has distributed
15 billion songs all over
the world on the internet.
And if you think about it,
when iTunes Store was first created,
it was at a time when
the browser was king.
Everyone thought if you're
going to do e-commerce,
you should use a browser.
But Apple did it different.
They said,
we're going to build an application
that allows you to directly interact
with the data you want in the
way that makes the most sense.
And we're going to create a cloud
service called the iTunes Store that
works with that application.
This was done many, many years ago.
The second application is the App Store.
The App Store has distributed
14 billion of your applications
over the past several years.
And it's done in a way that really
is a seamless extension of iOS.
It's that same seamless extension that
we want to bring to all of iCloud,
so that it just works.
Now between these two stores,
we have around 225 million user accounts.
And those user accounts have credit
card information and purchase history.
So our customers are trusting us
with some very critical information.
And now we have the
Apple Push Notification Service.
APNS is behind Push Email.
It's also a developer API that we
actually released two years ago at the
Worldwide Developers Conference in 2009.
So it's given us some great experience
with delivering APIs that developers can
use to interact with our cloud services.
APS is fast, it's efficient,
and it's reliably distributed over 100
billion notifications since it started.
FaceTime.
So FaceTime is this wonderful service
that connects people together wherever
they are and whenever they want.
And it does it in a way, again,
that the user doesn't even know.
There's a cloud service behind it
that's basically matching up people.
And it does this in a
way that just works.
And finally, Game Center.
So Game Center has been used by
50 million users around the world.
These users want to immediately update
others with their gaming information.
And they want it to just happen.
Now.
And an important point around these
services is also who's behind them.
So the same people who
help build these services,
many of them are the ones behind iCloud.
So we have some great
engineering behind the service.
Now, in addition to the technology,
when you're offering a cloud service,
you have to have infrastructure.
And Apple's scale really helps here.
As you know, we have a new data center.
It's out in Maiden.
It's huge.
It's our third facility.
It represents over a $500
million investment in iCloud.
And because of this investment,
it means that you get to take advantage
of this infrastructure simply by
using the iCloud Storage APIs.
Now, at the keynote yesterday,
Roger Rosner demonstrated the iWork
applications on an iPhone and an iPad,
seamlessly sharing information
between each other.
Now, we spent a lot of time with Roger's
team talking about cloud storage
and the best way that we could
provide this feature in applications.
Now, the result of that work together was
basically the iCloud Storage APIs.
And the iWork applications use the
exact same iCloud Storage APIs that
your applications can use as well.
So there's no reason for
you not to join this group.
So we look forward to seeing the amazing
applications that you develop that take
advantage of the iCloud Storage APIs.
And with that,
I'm going to hand it back over to Dallas,
and he's going to take you
through the APIs in more detail.
Thank you.
So as Eric mentioned,
the demo that you saw yesterday in the
keynote was done by the iWork team,
and they built it directly on these APIs.
It didn't have any private
interfaces available to them.
They built it with the APIs that
we're going to be making available
in iOS 5 and Mac OS X Lion.
So if you were at Ali Ozer's
talk about what's new in Cocoa,
he started talking about NS File Manager,
which is the first API that we've
extended to support Cloud Storage.
As I mentioned,
the way that Cloud Storage fundamentally
works is you take the documents
that you want to sync,
and you put them into
your app's iCloud sandbox.
NS File Manager is how you do that.
We're also going to be talking
about NS Metadata Query.
If you're familiar with the
Spotlight APIs on Mac OS X,
we're also making NS Metadata
Query available for iCloud
Storage in particular,
which will allow your application
to discover all of the files
that are available to it.
We're also introducing a new
class in UI Document-- excuse me,
a new class called UI Document in
Cocoa Touch that encapsulates all of
the Cloud Storage APIs that you might
need for doing a UI kit-based document.
In addition,
we've extended NS Document to
also support cloud storage.
And the vast majority of your
applications are going to be able to
take advantage of these two classes
to participate in cloud storage.
However,
we're also providing a glass of ice
water for our Windows developers,
so they can participate
in cloud storage as well.
And we also have this key value data
store that we're introducing in the
event that your application doesn't
need to sync entire documents,
but it still wants to move simpler
key value information between devices.
I would like to point out that
key value store is only available
on iOS and Mac OS X line.
So let's get into
NS File Manager a little bit.
The first API is that it allows you to
move a file into the iCloud sandbox.
So that's how you tell the
system that you intend to make
this available to other devices.
That's all you have to do.
You just put it in that sandbox,
and the system will begin
moving it up to iCloud,
and reflecting it down to the
other devices on your behalf.
In addition,
we're also going to talk about
the NS Metadata Query APIs,
which will tell you about all
of the files that are available.
You can use NS File Manager to
determine if you've got a URL in hand,
if it's currently a part of iCloud.
It will also allow you to locate
the physical location of the iCloud
sandbox for your application,
in case you need to do something
a little bit more sophisticated
than just put this file in it.
Another feature that we're introducing
with iCloud Storage is the ability
to publish a URL for downloading.
So if you've created a document,
and for example,
you want to mail it as an
attachment to someone who is
To another user,
what you can do is you can use
the NS File Manager APIs to
publish that document.
It will give you back a URL,
and then you can send that in an email.
Then the person on the other
end can download that document
in a web browser like Safari.
One thing to note about the published
URLs is that they will expire
after a certain amount of time,
so they're not permanent.
We're also introducing NS Metadata Query
that provides an asynchronous discovery
and notification API that allows your
applications to learn about all of
the files that are available to it,
even if they're being
created on another device.
To do this,
we're introducing two new search
scopes to NS Metadata Query.
The first is NS Metadata
Query Local Document Scope.
Say that three times fast.
And what this does is,
it's a scope that will return all
of the documents that are local to
your application on that device.
So these are, in the case of an iOS app,
the documents that traditionally
are inside of your local sandbox.
But now you can get access to
all of them via the standard API.
We're also introducing a second
scope called NS Metadata Query
Ubiquitous Document Scope,
which will return the list of documents
that are local to your application,
but also all of the other
documents that might be on another
device that are known to iCloud.
Once you receive all the
information from this query,
you're going to get back a
list of NSMetadata items.
And so we've extended the set of
attributes for NSMetadata item
to help describe those files,
now that they're available to you.
The first are a set of
standard file attributes,
like its name,
its localized display name, its size,
and its modification dates.
But we're also going to be providing
a set of iCloud attributes as well.
So these are things like--
Is the file currently
being uploaded to iCloud,
or is it being downloaded to your device?
Percentage complete for the
amount of data that's currently
made it up to the cloud or not.
As well as if the file had a conflict
when it was being transferred to iCloud.
So as I mentioned previously,
the system will go ahead and
resolve conflicts automatically.
And what I mean by that is that the
system is going to choose a winner.
And NSMetadata query is going to
allow you to discover that the
system went ahead and chose a winner.
And we're going to talk about some
API that's also being introduced
that then allows your application
to go and make a better decision
on behalf of the user if the
system didn't quite get it right.
I would like to point out that
these new scopes do not work
with the more complex predicates.
So if you're familiar with the
Spotlight APIs on Mac OS X,
these are a little bit simpler.
So UIDocument is a new class that we're
introducing in Cocoa Touch with iOS 5.
And what it provides is a simple
asynchronous reading and writing
model for your documents.
So if you're writing an application
on iOS that is managing documents,
you want to be using UIDocument.
It provides a simple
autosaving mechanism.
So the model on iOS is the user
doesn't have to go click a Save button.
This same feature is also being
introduced in Mac OS X Lion.
But by using UIDocument,
you get that for free.
It also includes automatic
support for suspended apps.
So if you're running on iOS and
your application is suspended,
the user switches out,
or the system needed more resources,
your documents are automatically going
to be saved by the UIDocument system.
This also includes the new
Cocoa Document model that
Ali started talking about in the web.
So what's new in Cocoa Talk this morning?
And by taking advantage of UIDocument,
you're also going to be taking
advantage of iCloud storage support.
On Mac OS X,
NS Document has also been extended to
provide support for iCloud Storage.
This includes a new
modernized document model.
And if you were at
Craig's talk yesterday,
he talked a little bit about
what we're building here.
And in particular,
it's a document model that is making it
easier for your applications to manage
concurrent access to the same document.
So on the Mac,
That might mean two applications that
are talking to the same document,
but the exact same APIs are
what also allow two applications
running on two different devices
to coordinate via iCloud Storage.
If the case where NS Document isn't
exactly going to be the
right thing for your app,
it sits on top of lower level APIs,
the first of which is
NS File Coordinator.
And NS File Coordinator allows your
application to coordinate with other
applications and basically says,
"Hey,
I've currently got this document loaded,
and I'm making changes to it."
There's also the
NS File Presenter protocol,
which is how your application
interacts with the system to say
that I've loaded this document,
and I'm presenting its
contents to the user.
One of the things Craig mentioned
yesterday was the idea that
with the new version support,
we can have multiple versions
of the document on disk,
but when the user actually goes and
clicks on it and drags it into mail,
we need to make sure that
we have the latest version
being used as the attachment.
And it's NS File Presenter,
which is how the system also
communicates back with your app.
So it helps you manage
concurrent access to a document.
And lastly,
there's the NS File Version APIs,
which in the context of iCloud Storage,
is how your application can get access
to that other conflicted document
in the case where the system made
a choice for conflict resolution,
and your application can make a
better decision on behalf of the user.
So it allows you to
manage multiple versions,
as well as iCloud conflicts.
As I mentioned,
we also have a Windows API available.
What it will allow you to do is discover
the iCloud Sandbox on that platform,
and receive notifications
when files are modified.
Now,
there's an entire set of applications
that we call Shoebox app,
and a good example of that is iPhoto.
And this is because not every document is
a simple file or even a simple package.
Instead,
what you might have is a database
that indexes a wide set of
files on behalf of the user,
and then presents that in an
understandable way in the UI.
Now, most shoebox applications are
built using our core data APIs,
and core data does take
advantage of iCloud Storage.
So, if you're building an application
that uses a simple file,
or a package, or it uses core data,
all of those can participate
in iCloud Storage,
and your documents will move
from an iOS device to a Mac,
and to a Windows device as well.
At this point,
I'd like to talk a little bit
more about the key value data
API that we're providing.
This API is when you want to store
a small amount of information.
So, for example,
if you have an application that tracks
the set of stocks on behalf of a user,
or the cities they're interested in,
and their weather app.
or the pages that I read in a book,
this is the perfect API for doing that.
It allows you to reflect an
application's behavior across
all of the user's devices,
so that he doesn't have to
keep entering in all of that.
In particular, it's for storing a small
amount of information.
So if you start shoving
lots of things in here,
you're going to violate the quota.
We're introducing a new API in
both iOS and Mac OS X that we call
NS Ubiquitous Key Value Store.
It stores simple plist values.
So the standard objects that you would
serialize in a property list today,
these are the types of values
that we put up in the store.
Your own custom objects won't work.
You'll have to serialize
them into an NSData,
and then put them into
the key value store.
We have a reserved quota per application.
So iCloud Storage,
as they mentioned previously,
iCloud Storage has a five gigabyte
quota that's free for the user,
but it includes their mail,
their cloud backups,
and all of their iCloud
Storage documents.
NS Ubiquitous Key Value Store is a
separate quota that is just for your app.
You'll receive change notifications
when specific keys and values
change on another device.
But it does not do any
conflict resolution.
It's much, much simpler.
Instead, the last change wins.
So if you have your app on an iPhone,
an app on an iPad,
If I set a value on my iPhone,
and then I set it on my iPad,
the value set by the iPad is
what's the truth in iCloud.
So I'd like to talk a little bit
about what this code might actually
look like in your application.
It's fairly simple,
and as Ali mentioned previously,
if you've used NS user defaults before,
it's going to look pretty familiar.
The first thing you'll do
is get your default store.
And you will also register
for notifications from the
device when something changes.
And this is pretty
standard notification API.
Once you've gotten your store,
you then tell the system to synchronize,
and what it will do is synchronize any
changes you've made with the server.
Now, if you call it for the first time,
it's going to bring down the key value
data that is currently up in iCloud.
So in the case where you actually
want to set stuff in key value data,
that's it.
That's all you have to do.
You set specific property list
type values in your store.
You also want to take those changes
and write them out on a disk.
And then you call synchronize,
and they'll be moved up into the cloud.
As I mentioned,
the system does not support conflicts,
and so whoever made a change to a
particular key last is the winner.
Now, when you receive that notification,
one of the pieces of information
we're going to give you is the reason
that you got that notification.
There can be a few different ones.
The first is that this
is the initial download,
so your app is launched on a
new device for the first time,
and you're going to get a notification
that we're bringing down all the key
value data associated with your app.
You're also going to get a
notification if a particular key
was changed on another device,
and this is also how the system's going
to tell you if you violated the quota,
if you've just put too
much information into it.
Once you get your notification,
you determine the reason
that we called it,
we're going to give you back a list
of the keys that actually changed,
and at that point,
you can go look up their values
with the key value data store,
and you've moved that
data between two devices.
So we've talked about the APIs that
you can take advantage of to
add iCloud Storage to your app.
And at the end of the session,
I'm going to show you a bunch
of the more in-depth talks
about each API you can go to,
and there's also a ton of labs.
But what do you have
to do to get started?
The first thing you need to do is update
your provisioning profile with Xcode 4.
And what you're going to need to
do is add two new entitlements
to your application to indicate
to the system that you want to
participate in iCloud Storage.
This first one,
Ubiquity Container Identifiers,
is how you indicate to the
system that you want to put
documents into an iCloud sandbox.
And the second one is if you want
to use the Key Values Store as well.
So you may be in a position where
you don't just want to sync your
document with one application.
You might have a Lite and
a Pro version of your app,
and iCloud Storage will support that.
So if a user has on one device
the Lite version of your app and
the Pro version on a different,
they're going to be able to
share documents with each other,
even if they have different
bundle identifiers.
You might also have a suite of apps
that work together that understand
each other's document formats and can
work on those documents concurrently.
And the way we allow you to do
this is with that first container
entitlement that I talked about.
This is how you're going to be able
to specify that I want this set of
apps to be able to access each other's
files on all of the user's devices.
And if you've adopted NS File Manager,
and you've adopted NS Metadata Query,
you're going to get all
of that support for free.
You don't have to do anything new,
in addition to the previous API,
to take advantage of this between
multiple versions of your apps.
Also, because you might have a
Lite and a Pro version,
you can use iCloud Storage to manage
how the quota is displayed to the user.
I'll talk about the quota in a moment,
but in particular,
you're going to be able
to manage the display set,
so you can give a unified user experience
to the user when they're trying to figure
out what documents are taking up space.
So in particular,
with regards to the quota,
the user gets five gigabytes free,
and they can manage their
quota through settings or
system preferences on the Mac.
So what they're going to
see is they're going to see,
for example, their cloud backups,
but then for each application that's
participating in iCloud Storage,
they can then drill into it,
and look at their individual documents.
As I mentioned,
the quota is shared across your mail,
your cloud backups,
and your iCloud Storage documents.
And the individual user can
go in and delete a specific
document if he wants to.
He can also delete all of the
data associated with a document.
So we've talked about the
APIs that are available to you.
We've also talked about what you
have to do to get up and running.
There are some things we'd like
you to consider if you add iCloud
Storage to your application.
In particular,
avoid saving your document if
nothing has actually changed.
Every time you modify a
file in the iCloud sandbox,
the system is going to do work.
It's going to determine
what changes have been made,
and it's going to want to
move them up to iCloud.
So if there's not any actual
substantial change to the document
from the point of view of the user,
then you probably don't need
to be making any changes to the
actual files in that sandbox.
Also,
avoid publishing private information.
For example, with the publishing
API that we're providing,
what you don't want to
do is surprise your user.
For example, if you have undue
stacks in your document,
what you might be doing is keeping
a history of all of the edits that
the user has made to that document,
and that information itself is within
the files being moved up to iCloud.
What this undo stack actually
represents are the set of decisions
that the user has made about his data.
He's decided the specific things
that he doesn't want in the document.
But if you've saved that
in the document itself,
and then he's published it, well,
now it's been made
available to someone else,
and he might not have intended that.
So that's something you want
to keep in mind when you're
building your applications.
I'm going to go ahead and show
you a little bit of a demo.
In addition,
none of the APIs that we discussed
today are appropriate for storing
passwords or other credentials
that your application might use to
communicate with another service.
If you are dealing with passcodes
or you are dealing with credentials,
you should be using the Keychain API.
And there's a session later this
week that will go into greater
detail about how to use that and
our data protection APIs on iOS.
There's an internet maxim that talks
about being conservative in what you do,
and liberal in what you accept.
One of the great things about the
App Store is that it makes it very
easy for developers to make new
versions of their apps available.
The user can update,
the system takes care of all of
that infrastructure on your behalf.
But what this might mean
is that your user has one
version of an app on his phone,
and a different version on his Mac,
or a different version on his iPad,
and they might have
different document formats.
You might have updated the version,
you might be writing things
out in a different way,
and you're going to need
to be prepared for that,
because you might see a document
in the latest version of your app,
that was actually created
by an older version.
And you need to be prepared
for what that might mean.
So you want to respect other file
formats in your version in the apps
that are running on the user's device.
For example,
with regards to the file formats,
your document might be sorting something
from A to Z in your newest version.
But the previous version of your
application actually stored it in Z to A.
So if you modify that document,
and you write it back out
in one sorting format,
the document then moves to
the device that older version.
It might then turn around and
write it back out in Z to A.
And now you're ping-ponging data
back and forth between those devices.
Also, if your application is
generating cached data,
this isn't the type of thing you need
to be moving around between iCloud.
So if your application can
auto-generate it on one app,
it can auto-generate it on
the other device as well.
Also, use the Key Value Data Store when
it's appropriate for your application.
If you don't need to be putting
things in large documents,
you just need to be syncing
a small amount of information
between your devices,
Key Value Data Store is
the API you want to use.
So to recap what we've
talked about today,
we talked about the iCloud
Storage feature and the problems
that we're trying to solve
on behalf of our developers.
In particular, let the operating system
move it through for you.
The OS on each device and the
iCloud service have taken all the
difficult work of building all of
the infrastructure and dealing with
all of the protocols for moving data,
and we'll move it for you.
It will be available on iOS, Lion,
and Windows later this year.
In particular,
we went into the iCloud Storage APIs that
you can use for taking advantage
of iCloud Storage in your app.
We talked about the new UI Document class
that's being introduced in Cocoa Touch,
as well as the extensions
we've made to NS Document.
Again,
for the vast majority of your apps,
these are the two classes that
all you're going to need to use
to take advantage of iCloud.
That said,
if you need to do more specific
and more detailed work,
there's also the File Coordinator,
Presenter, and Version APIs for
managing your stuff directly.
And if you were building a shoebox
application and you used core data,
you're also going to be able to
take advantage of iCloud Storage.
And lastly,
we talked about the key value data store,
and how you can sync small
amounts of information.
So we have a number of sessions
later this week that are going to go
into greater detail on each of the
APIs that I've talked about today.
There's autosave inversions
in Mac OS X Lion.
That's going to talk more about the
NS document model that we're introducing.
There's also a What's New in
Core Data on iOS talk,
that if you are building
a sandbox application,
you definitely want to go to this talk.
There's taking advantage
of file coordination,
as well as storing documents
in iCloud using iOS 5.
That's going to go into a lot of
detail about UI document itself.
As I mentioned,
none of the APIs we've discussed
today are appropriate for things
like passwords and credentials.
But if you are dealing with
that type of information,
you should go to the Securing
Application Data talk.
And there will be a repeat of
the What's New in Core Data talk
on Mac OS X for the Mac,
not for iOS.
All right?
Thank you very much for your time,
and I hope you have a great time
at the conference this week.